So last week we talked about, we're going to continue this series about losing to wind.
And last week we talked about the blessing of surrender.
And remember, we talked about the lepers and the city that was under siege and the lepers take a chance and they go to the Arameans.
And then God fulfills this amazing promise and he answers the prayers of the people and the famine is ended and all these things.
And I'll tell you right now, folks, and I've been preaching for, well, not 30 years, but pretty close to it.
And I've noticed that there are certain topics in the Bible that really get people's knickers in a knot.
And one of those topics is time.
And today I'm going to be talking about surrendering your time to God, right?
So I want to say, first of all, this is not meant to put a guilt trip on anybody, okay?
I realize that this is my profession, right?
And that you all go to your jobs
and you're raising your kids and your grandkids and people's times are filled up and all that.
Don't take this as a message of guilt.
Like I should be adding something else to my calendar.
Instead, just take it as what does God want from me?
What does God want from me about my time?
The other thing that I've noticed that gets people's knickers all bunched up really is money.
And I'm gonna talk about that next week.
No, I'm just kidding.
I'm not gonna talk about money.
We're going to talk about trust and faith in the next two weeks.
But, you know, we talk about how, you know, I love the song selection today, and I really love that song, I Surrender All.
I mean, this is one of the greatest hymns I think that's ever been written.
And, you know, it is so amazing that spiritual victory comes when we surrender to God.
I mean, that really, as Americans and as Westerners, you know, we're taught win, win, win.
Life has winners, life has losers.
You know, he who dies with the most toys wins.
And when you're in athletics, you're talking about win, win, win.
When you're in band, you want to be first chair, you know, and all the kinds of things.
Everything in our culture is built around the idea that you got to do certain things in order to win.
And so it's definitely paradoxical when Jesus comes along and says, the way to win, the way to experience life, the way to experience the fullness of all that God has for us is in surrender.
And it's one of many contradictions or many paradoxical truths in the Bible.
He says, if you want to receive, you must first give.
He says, if you want to save your life, you have to lose it.
But if you lose your life for the sake of Jesus, you find life.
And so it's not surprising then that Jesus says the way to win is through surrender.
And so today we're going to talk about that.
First, I wanted to get you some dad jokes about time.
Okay, I think you guys, you're welcome, men.
You can pass these jewels along to your kids and grandkids.
Here's one.
What do you call a grandfather clock?
An old timer.
What happens when you annoy a clock?
It gets ticked off.
Why is everyone so tired on April the 1st?
because they've just finished a March of 31 days.
I know, that one's cheesy, isn't it?
What did the second hand say to the hour hand?
I'll see you in a minute.
And then finally, what do you call a clock on the moon?
A lunar tick.
That could also be if you're from Texas.
So one of the things I thought is, you know, because everybody I think perceives that we have less time than what, you know, that our schedules and our lives are busier and busier and busier all the time.
And, you know, all the time I run into people and they're just like, they're always crunched for time.
And what I wanted to do is say, well, do people really actually have less time today than they did years ago?
Or do we simply perceive that we have less time today than we did
years ago and here's some of the things that I found.
According to a recent Gallup poll, 48% of Americans complain of not having enough time.
How many Americans do you think reported not having enough time in 1990?
47%.
According to the study by the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Many Americans report star for time, but historical data suggests that the average American actually has more leisure time today than in the mid-1960s and 1970s.
I think that is shocking to a lot of people.
And it's one of the things that just reminds me, right?
There's nothing new under the sun.
The distractions may be different.
The way that we spend our time may be different than in the 50s and 60s.
But the truth is, the people in the 60s and 70s actually had less leisure time than the average American does today.
However, this gain is not distributed equally, and new forms of time stress have emerged to make it feel as though free time has vanished.
So, Gen Z, who are aged 14 to 29, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, they have an average of 4.9 to 5.4 hours of free time a day.
Millennials who are aged 30 to 45 have an average of 3.8 to 4.3 hours a day.
Gen X has an average of 4.3 to 5.3 hours a day.
And then baby boomers average 6.5 to 7.6 hours of well-earned free time every day.
Well, you worked.
I mean, hey, why do we feel busier?
And this was really interesting.
One person said it's because of time fragmentation.
That our leisure is often fragmented, right?
It's broken into small intervals by digital notifications, right?
If you have your phone anywhere near you, you can't really get a second's rest, right?
Because your phone is either beeping, vibrating, calling you, whatever, you know, all the time.
You get the whoosh sound when you get an email.
You know, you get everything else, all the texts, all these things.
And so what that amounts to is that we feel like we have less time because the time that we do have is constantly interrupted by phones or other things.
Another one is that people with higher incomes often report feeling more time stressed even if they don't work more hours because the high value of their time makes wasted moments feel more costly.
It's interesting.
Another is passive leisure.
Much of the gain time is spent on activities like watching television, which we watch for roughly 20 hours a week, which consistently ranks low for actual satisfaction compared to socializing our hobbies.
In other words, television is then inherently, you know, it doesn't make us feel rested.
When we watch too much television, we tend to get more agitated, right?
If you're watching the news, especially you get more agitated, or you just have a sense that you're killing time watching television and stuff.
So it's ultimately not as satisfying as socializing our hobbies or all the other things that we like to do.
And so with that in mind, let's look at what the Bible says in Proverbs chapter three.
Well, now there's one more slide for these, one more labor saving device paradox.
Appliances like dishwashers have not significantly decreased total housework time.
Instead, they have raised the standards of cleanliness, leading people to perform tasks more frequently.
That's really a paradox, isn't it?
Well, before we read this passage in Proverbs, I want you to, like we did last week, just take a moment and pray and say, God, open my heart, open my mind.
Open my spirit to what it is that you have for me today.
And so I just want you to take a moment of silence and pray.
Well, Father, we do pray, God, that Lord, that you would open our hearts and our minds to see and hear what your spirit has for us today, God.
We live so much of time as distracted people.
I pray, God, that you would
Remove those distractions in our lives about the things that we might have later today or tomorrow at work.
And just let us hear, God, what it is that the Spirit has for us today.
For in Christ's name we pray, amen.
Proverbs three, one through four says, my son, do not forget my teaching, but keep my commands in your heart, for they will prolong your life many years and bring you prosperity.
Let love and faithfulness never leave you.
Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of a perfect Savior.
But what?
Oh, that's weird.
No, that's not it.
My son, do not forget my teaching, but keep my commands in your heart for they will prolong your life many, many years and bring you prosperity.
Let love and faithfulness never leave you.
Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart.
And then you will win favor in a good name in the sight of God and man.
And so I want you to focus that the key word there is in verse four, you will win.
God says that if you want to be a winner in life, the key is surrendering to him.
And so what does it mean to surrender our time to God?
Well, it means that first of all, that total surrender means spending time with God and for God.
The most valuable commodity that we all have is time.
We always talk about time is money, time is this, time is that.
The most valuable commodity each one of us has is time.
And time is a lot of times how we express our love and devotion to another person.
And every person on earth has the same amount of time.
Everybody has 24 hours, 1,440 minutes, 864,000 seconds.
no more and no less.
And where you spend your time and with whom you spend your time tells a lot about your priorities.
Ephesians chapter five verses 15 and 16 say, see then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil.
I mean, I think what the author there, what Paul is saying is that time is really valuable
And you need to redeem the time.
That means you need to not waste your time.
The urgency is there.
There's people out there who are lost.
There's people out there who are hurting.
There's people out there who are in pain.
There's people in your families who are experiencing those same things.
There's people in your workplace that are experiencing all those same things.
Maybe your heart is experiencing all those same things.
And time, the days are evil.
Meaning that going along and just repeating the same thing every single day
turns evil eventually because you only have a certain amount of time.
And we need to live our lives with some urgency, continue to live our lives with urgency for the gospel.
You know, I read this, and it really talks about our age, great.
It says, ours is the age of the half red page, the quick hash in the mad dash, the bright nights with the nerves tight, the plain hop with the brief stop, the lamp tan in a short span,
the brain strain and the heart pain, the catnaps till the spring snaps and then the fun's done.
Right?
And we could easily fall into that trap of not redeeming the time.
The Proverbs 3 says this, this is your primary focus when you love and show for your faithfulness to God because he tells us first that God deserves my love.
Right?
He writes, let love and faithfulness never leave you.
Love and faithfulness
are not two separate qualities, right?
The language here conveys the idea of love that is continually faithful or steadfast love, right?
God, once you come to know Jesus as your Lord and Savior and once he begins to make you more like him, then you develop steadfast love for God.
It's a love that's gonna last you all of your lifetime on earth and it's gonna last you all eternity.
And that steadfast love, that loving God and keep on loving God, no matter what happens in your life, no matter what kinds of great joys come your way, or no matter what kind of great difficulties come your way, the key is your steadfast love for God.
You know, Jesus didn't often answer questions, but one occasion a lawyer asked him a question worthy of his reply, and he simply said, what is the greatest commandment?
And Jesus
Of course, we all understand this passage in Mark chapter 12.
He says, the greatest one is this.
Here, O Israel, the Lord, our God is one.
Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.
The most important thing that we can offer God is our sincere love.
Love that comes from the bottom of our hearts.
And it's a love relationship that can grow every single day if we cooperate with the Spirit.
And that's what everybody in this room, I think you wouldn't be here in this room if you didn't have a sincere love for God and a sincere love for God's people.
But we're always challenged to continue to even grow deeper and to grow more loving and more kind and to love God with all of our hearts and minds and sincere love.
You know, when you love someone, you spend time with them.
I've been married for 31 years, and I still like to spend time with my wife.
She doesn't enjoy spending time with me anymore, but I still like to spend time with her.
You know, I told the doctor one time I had my daughter, Grace, in there, in the doctor's office when she was maybe 12 or 13.
And he kind of talked to me about, you know, her moods and stuff like that.
And I was like, well, it's really unfortunate that I'm here and not her mother because right now I've got two teenage daughters, a wife and a female dog.
So when I walk in the house, I keep my head down and my mouth shut.
Right?
But no, of course, right?
If I never spent any time with my wife or if you never spent time with your spouses or time with your children, then it would be pretty hard to say that you love them.
And how much time do you devote to being with God?
You know, Christians, if you want to grow, you need to spend time every single day with God.
I challenge every person in this room for every day this week, and if you don't already have a consistent quiet time, if you don't already have a time when you set aside for prayer and to read something in God's word, I challenge you to just say, you know what?
This week, every day, I'm gonna set a goal for five minutes.
I mean, that's not a lot, right?
But it's a start.
I'm gonna set a goal for five minutes to study God's Word, maybe read a passage out of, read a Psalm and then read a passage out of the gospel.
And I'm gonna spend a couple of minutes in prayer every day and see what God won't do in your life.
Pretty soon that five minutes will grow greater because once you start spending time with God, then you wanna spend more time with God.
And that's the beautiful thing.
So God is worthy of my love and secondly, God demands my loyalty.
Verse three says, according to God's commands, bind them around your neck, right them on the tablet of your heart.
You know, the Orthodox Jews love the word of God so much that they literally bound it around their neck and arms with leather straps called phylacteries.
And when they were wearing these phylacteries, it was impossible for them to forget God's word.
I mean, just imagine, if you wrote a verse on a brick, you put that brick on a rope and then you wore it around your neck all day long.
That would be a pretty massive constant reminder of God and His words.
But the great news is, you don't have to have that backache of wearing a brick around your neck all day long.
You simply
God says, I simply want to write my word on the tablet of your heart.
And I want you to carry it in your heart all day long.
That's why the Psalmist says in Psalm 11911, I have hidden your word in my heart that I may not sin against you.
That's what God wants to do.
And if you read the scriptures and study the scriptures, he'll bring to mind the scriptures that you've studied just when you need them the most.
How many of you have ever been talking to somebody, and maybe you're sharing the Lord, or you're talking to somebody who's nervous about surgery, or somebody who's in the great pain of some other kind, and all of a sudden a verse just pops in your head?
That's not an accident, right?
That is the word being written on the tabloid of your heart.
That is a sacred holy moment when that verse pops into your mind, and you share that verse with this person who's in pain, or maybe it's you,
and all of a sudden a verse pops in your mind.
Man, that is the Holy Spirit.
Listen, that is the spirit of the God of the universe, bringing to your mind individually when there are nine billion people on this planet.
That is Him bringing to your mind a scripture to get you through whatever it is you're going through.
I mean, that is a powerful work of God that we oftentimes don't even consider.
Well, God wants to do those things in our lives.
And the way that we can demonstrate our love and loyalty to God is by serving Him, right?
God saves us for action.
He saves us to help other people.
He saves us to be the hands and the feet of Jesus.
Here at DCC, there are a lot of ministries you can choose from, right?
You can go from everything from writing cards to writing, you know, to volunteering to help kids read to, you know,
cooking meals for people to teaching Bible studies, singing or playing an instrument.
I mean, there are all kinds of ways.
Even in our community, there are all kinds of ways to impact other people's lives.
You know, we always need people everywhere in every ministry of the church.
And a lot of people simply say, I don't have the time.
But listen, this is not, again, not to me it to be a guilt trip.
And I don't want you to add something additional to your schedule.
But I want you to think about if you're too busy to serve God, am I too busy?
If I don't have any time to serve the Lord, am I too busy?
And ask God, are there areas in my life in which I'm too busy?
Or is there something I need to cut out?
It's OK to carve out time to serve God.
Business does not necessarily mean productivity.
And being over-scheduled is going to eventually lead to burnout and isolation.
I challenge all of us to be like George.
I read this story about a man named George.
He was a peacemaker with a big heart and a wonderful sense of humor.
And everybody at church loved George.
He was respected at the hospital where he worked.
And the reason that so many people loved him was he was always kind and respectful to everyone he met.
George's children clearly remember the days George spent in the hospital before his death.
One day the administrator of the hospital paid him a visit and they spoke as though they were old friends.
A few minutes later one of the janitors came to visit George and they had a nice visit.
And when the janitor left one of the kids said, dad,
Did you realize that you treated the president of the hospital and the janitor just alike?
George smiled and chuckled and he said, let me ask you something.
If the administrator left for two weeks and the janitor left for two weeks, which one do you think would be missed the most?
Then George called his children around his bed and he said, let me show you something I carry in my pocket all the time, even when I'm over the lawn.
And he pulled out a pocket-sized cross and a marble with the golden rule on it.
And he said, on the cross are written the words, God's love you.
God loves you.
And on the marble are the words, do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
And he said, the cross reminds me how deeply God loves me.
And the marble reminds me how deeply God wants me to love others.
That's what it's all about.
You know, you can get into theological arguments and libraries have been filled up, you know, all across the world, libraries have been filled with different views on theology and all this kind of thing.
But really Christianity is quite simple.
Love God with all your heart, your soul and your mind and love your neighbor as yourself.
And if you can do those two things, then all the theology books in the world will not keep you from growing in the Lord and making your life count.
Right?
It's simple.
The problem is, is that we get confused about who our neighbors are.
And we have sometimes, you know, we have too many voices in our heads telling us, this is what you should think.
This is what you should believe.
But the thing that we ought to think is, God, I want to love you with sincere love.
And I want to love everybody I come into contact with with sincere love.
And I'm going to let you sort them all out.
Not my job to sort them out.
That's God's job.
My job is to love them, right?
That's your job and mine.
If you want to make something that an impact that lasts for eternity, treat everyone like George did.
Love people, serve them, give them encouragement.
And most of all, tell them that for the reason for your hope, people are out there suffering from a lack of hope.
They don't think things are ever going to get better.
And if you've ever suffered that in your life, you know how lonely and a desolate place that can be.
You know, I've always thought and heard, and I've said this many times before, that you can live 30 days without food.
You can live maybe three or four days without water, but you cannot live a second without hope.
It is intrinsically almost in our DNA.
something that each one of us needs and also something that each one of us needs to give away to others.
So let God use you as an instrument for that.
I like the Salvation Army has it saying it says the bad news is time flies.
The good news is you're the pilot.
Now, the second thing is total surrender is surrender to Christ as a conquered slave.
When you realize who you are in Christ, you come to understand that your time is not your own anyway.
It belongs to Christ because He has bought you and He has redeemed you.
On the basis of His sacrifice, we become slaves.
Now look at this passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 2.
He says, but thanks be to God who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ and through us spreads everywhere the fragrance of the knowledge of Him.
for we are to God the aroma of Christ, among those who are being saved and those who are perishing.
To one, we are the smell of death, and to the other, the fragrance of life."
I want to tell you what Paul is talking about in this passage.
That phrase always leads us in triumphal procession to Christ is the key to total surrender in Christ.
Now, if you were in Corinth, you knew exactly what Paul was talking about in this passage.
And the reason is because when a Roman general accomplished a major victory in battle, he would send a runner back to Rome to announce the good news.
And then the city would prepare for a victory parade.
And there was a certain incense that was burned all along the Appian Way so that everybody who lived near the Appian Way would smell that fragrance and know that the general was on his way and that there was gonna be a party
once he got there.
If you were a citizen of Rome and you stepped outside one morning and saw that fray or smelled that fragrance in the breeze, you'd say, man, today's going to be a good day.
There's going to be musicians.
There's going to be those that carry those incense burners.
And then the victorious army would march into the city to the cheers of the citizen.
But the star of the parade was the general.
He would be riding in a gold-plated chariot pulled by beautiful white horses.
I wonder who appears in Revelation on a white horse.
Change of his chariot and walking behind would be the surviving officers of the opposing army.
They were now slaves of the victorious general.
Some of the conquered army would be executed, but the officers would become the slaves.
sometimes important personal and professional assistance to Roman citizens and so listen to some the fragrance of the incense was life and to others it was a fragrance of death and that's what Paul is talking about here he says for we are to God the aroma of Christ among among those who are being saved and those who are perishing to the one where the smell of death and to the other the fragrance of
of life.
Right?
If you live your life, you know, I tell people, and I think a lot of younger people need to hear this.
If you want to live a life of adventure, then live for Jesus in a world that hates him.
Right?
If you want to live a courageous life, live for Jesus in a world that hates him, and he will take you further than you ever could imagine.
And it's the greatest ride because the general is good.
He's loving.
He's kind.
He wants the best for me and he wants the best for you.
And here's the life-changing principle.
Before you can ever be a conqueror, like in Romans chapter eight talks about we are more than conquerors, you must first be conquered.
Before you can become an overcomer, you must first be overcome.
And before you can be a master of anything,
You must first have to be mastered.
Now that'll blow your socks off.
It's amazing.
It's the opposite of what we would do in our flesh.
But if you want to master anything, you must first be mastered.
Once we've died to self, we've become His servants.
And that's what Paul is saying.
I have been conquered by Christ, and I'm in the chains of His Lordship.
And that's the place you and I wanna be, to be all that God has called us to be.
It's all a matter of authority.
We all remember the passage in Matthew chapter eight when a Roman centurion came to Jesus and he said, my servant is sick and Jesus said I'll come to your house and heal him.
As the centurion said, oh, you don't need to come to my house.
In fact, I'm not worthy of you to come to my house.
Just say the word and he'll be healed.
For I myself am a man under authority, with soldiers under me.
I tell this one go, and he goes, and to that one come, and he comes.
And the Bible says when Jesus heard those words, he was astonished.
Now think about how much it must take to astonish God.
He was astonished.
And he said, I tell you the truth, I have not found anyone in Israel with such great faith.
And then he said to the centurion, go,
It will be done just as you believed it will.
I mean, can't you imagine the disciples must have been scratching their heads?
Why was Jesus admiring a soldier's faith?
Well, he was doing it because the soldier understood authority, right?
He was saying, I'm under the emperor's authority.
So when I jump, the soldiers asked me, how high?
That's pretty much the same thing my first basketball coach said.
Right?
When I say jump, you say how high?
This Roman recognized Jesus was under the divine authority of God.
And so all he had to do was speak the word and all spiritual authorities would behave him.
Do you have and do I have that kind of great faith that all Jesus has to do is speak the word and it's done.
Well, the last thing is total surrender.
is living in the victory that Christ has won.
You know the great news is you don't have to fight the fight for victory.
It has already been fought.
Jesus has already won.
The battle is already over.
Now sure it's going to take place but you hear in Revelation all the armies gather and all that and Jesus comes and what does Jesus do to end the war?
He speaks and it's over.
That's incredible power and authority.
If you think about the world today and all the armies and all the weapons lined up against the Son of God and all he has to do is speak, and all of it is useless.
That's how powerful God is.
I don't have to fight the battle for redemption.
Jesus has already fought it and He's already won.
My job is simply to trust Him.
The Bible says this is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith.
In 1 John chapter five verse four, if you take this principle of surrender, it will take all the burden and the weight off of you trying to perform and earn your salvation.
Remember the picture of the Roman general and the slaves changes chariot?
Well, in this picture, Jesus is the general and I am the slave.
It's not my job to run ahead of the chariot and fight for the general.
He's already won.
My job is simply to stay connected to the chariot.
Right?
This is the most powerful principle.
My role as a slave to Christ is to stay chained to his chariot.
That's it.
I'm supposed to stay chained to his chariot.
We like to be in control, right?
But when we make Jesus the Lord of our lives, we surrender control to Him.
And, you know, when I understood this, and I'm still trying to grasp it, right?
And I think all of us are.
We're still in this battle of flesh and spirit.
And we know that our job is to be chained to the chariot.
Jesus is going before us and He has got a good plan and a good purpose for us.
He simply tells us to be chained to the chariot.
and he'll get us where we need to go, but it is not easy to be chained to the chariot.
Now you might be sitting here today, you might say, man, I'm struggling with a sickness.
Stay chained to the chariot.
You might say, I am struggling with pain and anguish.
I've got financial problems, marital problems, all kinds of problems.
Stay chained to the chariot, my friend.
You might say, I'm in great joy today.
You know, everything is going great.
You know, God is using me and he's opened my heart to new and different ideas.
Stay chained to the chariot.
That's all you got to do.
That's all I've got to do.
Early in my ministry, I would have said, it's my job to build the church.
Then one day God showed me in Matthew 16, I will build my church.
Jesus said, it's my church and it's my job to build it.
And he says, all you have to do is stay chained to the chariot, Lance.
It's not your job to build the church.
Both individually, I have to stay chained to the chariot.
And collectively, all of us in this room have to stay chained to the chariot to accomplish what God wants to accomplish through this church and this collection of people.
It's vital that everybody stay chained to the chariot to do what God wants us to do.
There is nobody in this church who is more important than another person in this church.
It takes all of us together as a family to keep moving forward to accomplish the things that God wants to accomplish.
And when he does that and we stay chained to the chariot, look out, Jack.
There's no telling what he can do.
You know, I've seen a lot of churches that have collective low self-esteem.
They're always thinking, well, we're too big, or we're too small, or we're too old, or we're too young, or we're too rich, or we're too poor.
We need another building.
We need this.
We need that.
And once we get all these kinds of things, then we finally arrived at a church.
And I just want to say, folks, our job is to stay chained to the chariot, and God will provide everything He wants to provide for this church.
It is that simple.
Don't start every day wishing that something was different.
We don't need to be concerned.
We need to be concerned about reaching everybody with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
But friends, we are not driving the chariot.
We are simply chained to the chariot.
And we're going to go wherever God leads us.
Every church is filled with imperfect people.
What I do know
is that people here really genuinely care about each other.
That people here are very generous with both their time and their treasure.
That we do sincerely try to meet, to encourage people and meet the needs whenever it's possible.
That we do want people to feel loved and to feel welcomed and I hope that you do because you are.
And that's a really good start.
And so we just need to say
God, I'm going to stay linked to you.
Jesus, I'm going to stay linked to you.
And God will get us to the place He wants us to go as a church.
And as an individual, God will get you to the place He wants you to go.
But when we surrender, God gives us His favor.
First force says, you will win favor.
There's something today that's a lot better than winning the lottery.
It's a lot better than winning a state championship or winning a tennis or a golf game.
It's winning the favor of God.
He says in Proverbs 12 too, I'm a good man obtains favor from the Lord, but the Lord condemns a crafty man.
Favor simply means attention and blessing.
When I was about 19 years old or something like that, maybe I was 20, I was playing basketball at East Texas Baptist University in Marshall, Texas.
I went up for a layup and I came down and I hit and I rolled my ankle over the guy who was guarding me.
And I mean, within two minutes, my ankle swelled up to the size of a basketball.
And I wound up going to the emergency room and the pain, the swelling was so great that the doctor came in and he said, I really hate to tell you this, but he said, we need to, we need to splint this thing and your foot is stuck in a position like this.
And he said, we need to get it in a position like this.
And he said, I'm going to give you a bit so that you don't bite through your tongue, because this is going to hurt almost worse than anything you can imagine.
Well, that was a great way to set it up, right?
I was feeling super excited then.
Oh yeah, give me that bit.
I'm ready, buddy.
And he gave me that bit.
And I don't even know what happened after that.
But he eventually got that foot up.
Well, what do you think I did with that leg for the next year?
I favored that leg.
I had to give it more attention than I would normally give because I had to favor that leg.
And that's what God is saying.
He's not saying that you're a broken ankle or anything like that.
But what God's saying is that if you stay chained to my chariot, I will give you favor.
And that simply means that He will pay attention to your needs.
When you surrender to Jesus, Lord, He is a kind God.
And He will consider all of your needs.
The last thing is, when we surrender, God gives us a good name.
The second part of the promise in verse 4 says, you will win a good name in the sight of God and man.
This does not primarily refer to your personal reputation, because it's not about me.
And the name of the slave wasn't important.
The slave was known more by the name of his master.
There's only one name in the universe that God has exalted above all other names, and that is the name Jesus.
When you surrender to Him, you become a Christian, which means little Christ.
You're a little Christ everywhere you go.
You're a representative of the general, even though you're a slave.
There's a wonderful custom in Bible times when two friends would part for a long time.
They would give each other a small white stone.
Remember the story of George?
They would give each other a small white stone, and the name of the friend would be written on that stone.
And wherever the friends went, they could look at the stone.
And though nobody else would know who the name referred to, it was always a happy reminder of that person.
Look what God says in Revelation.
This will make you slap your mama.
Jesus said to him who overcomes, I will give him some of the hidden manna.
I will also give him a white stone with a new name written on it known only to him who receives it.
God is saying, I'm going to give you a new name and I have it on my stone and I will never forget you no matter where you go.
or how far you are from me, because your name is written on this stone.
That's how much God loves you and that's how much He loves me.
And then we want to share that love with other people.
You know, this week on Facebook I asked a couple of friends or a few friends to send me stories of how God had changed their lives and I'm going to read a couple of them every week because they're all so great.
And the question that I want you to think when I read a couple of these today is
Don't I want everybody to know that?
Don't I want everybody to know that their life can change like the person that you read and the testimony that you read?
And don't I want to love people so much and care for people and be merciful to people and be kind to people so that the fragrance that I give off is godly and pleasing?
I don't want to give off a fragrance that leads to death.
Well, Debbie shared it with me.
You're gonna know who she is here in a second.
My salvation story, I met Dan in 1968.
My father was injured in a railroad accident at the Port in Seattle.
He convinced me to move to Squim when I was 16.
My other option was to live with my older sister in Bellevue to finish out a senior year at Newport High School.
My dad said, I will buy you a horse if you move.
That's pretty good.
I've loved horses since birth, so I agreed to move to Squim.
My dad wanted to buy cows for a small farm in Carlsberg.
We went to a farm in Gardner, now the Troll Farm.
Dan was managing the farm, so my dad and sold my dad a heifer named Posey.
Dan worked for John Loftall, who was his mentor in the Lord.
Dan's life and his shop teacher.
He went to Squim Bible Church on our first date.
That's pretty cool.
Pastor Dale Swanson had an altar call.
He first talked about sin.
I sat there thinking, I'm not a sinner.
You need to meet my parents.
Well, the sin pride overwhelmed me and I walked forward to receive Jesus as my Lord and Savior.
Dale took care of Dan and I and we grew in the Lord.
Pastor Swanson married us on February the 14th, 1970.
Kathy Rood was my bridesmaid, and her mother Carolyn was my spiritual mom.
God is good.
Dan and I will be married 56 years on February 14th because of the written word of God, His mercy and His love.
Don't you want everybody to have the experience like Debbie did?
Kara wrote this, I was five when I accepted Christ into my heart and was baptized at 11.
My childhood was a very hard one.
And I remember feeling very alone and unheard.
I knew that Jesus was God and that he adopts us as his children when we accept his gift.
I was so desperate for a loving father who would listen to me, love me deeply and show me that love.
A father who valued me and cared about my safety and well-being.
When I accepted Christ, it became very apparent to me that he was and is the father I did not have here on earth.
He gave me a huge sense of peace and strength to deal with the things going on in my young life.
Without God as my father, I wouldn't be who I am today.
Don't you want everybody that feels unaccepted to experience what Kara experienced?
I do.
And so do you.
And so let's tell everybody about somebody who can change anybody.
Let me pray, Father God, we thank You for this day.
We thank You, God, that You have showered mercy and grace upon us, God, that You're good.
Father, we would come before You, Lord, saying, God, that we simply want to remain chained to the chariot.
As a church and as individuals, God, let us spend our time being chained to the chariot.
Mold us and shape us as people.
to be more like Christ, to love you with all of our heart, with all of our mind, with all of our soul, and all of our spirit and strength, and to love our neighbor, all of them, as you love them.
God, you're good.
For it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.